---
layout: page
title: Books
permalink: /books/
---

I'm not going to maintain a list of books that I've read, am reading,
and plan on reading. That's too much work and of little value. What I am going to do is list
the books I recommend or gift, and the situation I do so in:

### Going off to college

[How To Become a Straight-A Student](http://calnewport.com/books/straight-a-student/)

This is the book I wish I had when I was in college. I followed Cal
Newport's blog religiously, and gifted this to my younger siblings and
anyone in general who's heading off to college. I also refer to this
from time to time in general, as it has fantastic guides on generating
ideas, writing, and how to attack learning different types of
information.

### Want to learn about money

[I Will Teach You To Be Rich](http://www.amazon.com/Will-Teach-You-Be-Rich/dp/0761147489/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1441064849&sr=8-1&keywords=i+will+teach+you+to+be+rich)

This book, despite the title, is superb and walks you through all the
basics of money, how credit/credit cards, banks, accounts, and
everything all works. This book made my life better, and I bought it for
my sister. I also give this to friends or anyone who asks about money
questions.

### Books for a CTO

[Managing Humans: Biting and Humorous Tales of a Software Engineering Manager](http://www.amazon.com/Managing-Humans-Humorous-Software-Engineering/dp/1430243147/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1441065017&sr=1-1&keywords=managing+humans)

This is phenomenal if you ever want to manage technical people and you
actually want them to be happy. :)

[The Hard Thing About Hard Things: Building a Business When There Are No Easy Answers](http://www.amazon.com/Hard-Thing-About-Things-Building/dp/0062273205/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1441065122&sr=1-1&keywords=the+hard+thing+about+hard+things)

This book is fantastic at depicting the realities, pressures, and
lessons you'll need to be cognizant of while running and building a
company. This, along with Managing Humans, are the two books I recommend
to clients who're poised to become CTO's down the line. I also refer to
them extensively every so often.

### Building Products

[Badass: Making Users Awesome](http://www.amazon.com/Badass-Making-Awesome-Kathy-Sierra/dp/1491919019)

I came across this book recently, and it's become my new bible. This
thing really gets at the core of what you truly need to focus on to make
a product that's enduringly, amazingly successful. This book is so good
I consider it valuable swag to raffle off at Rails user groups.

[Crossing the Chasm, 3rd Edition: Marketing and Selling Disruptive Products to Mainstream Customers](http://www.amazon.com/Crossing-Chasm-3rd-Disruptive-Mainstream/dp/0062292986/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1441065490&sr=1-1&keywords=crossing+the+chasm)

I don't have a business degree or much theoretical business schooling.
This book named, described and theoreticaly analyzed all the concepts
I'd read in Harvard Business Review, but in an extremely dry and
practical way. After applying the ideas in this book, I'm now not even
slightly tripped up by any "business-heavy" terminology. These are the
two books I'd give to somebody who was building a product for the first
time.

### In General

[Dune](http://www.amazon.com/Dune-Frank-Herbert/dp/0441172717/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1441065666&sr=1-1&keywords=dune)

This is my favorite book. I reread it from time to time. I can't tell
you why I like it so much, but it plays like a movie in my head and
gives me shivers every time. If you want to read a great story and live
in another place for a while, do yourself a favor and read this book.

[Mastery](http://www.amazon.com/Mastery-Robert-Greene/dp/014312417X/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1441065829&sr=1-1&keywords=mastery+robert+greene)

This book is worth reading twenty times over your life, ever six months. I'm only on #4.
